---
id: 0.1.3-alpha-released
title: DrDocx ships its first alpha release!
author: Faiz Surani
author_title: Lead Engineer, DrDocx
author_url: https://faizsurani.com
author_image_url: https://github.com/ProbablyFaiz.png
tags: [desktop, release]
---

Yesterday, DrDocx officially shipped to outside users for the first time with our [0.1.3-alpha](https://github.com/DrDocx/DrDocx-Desktop/releases/tag/0.1.3-alpha) release. We have a lot of work yet to do, but we're proud to have reached this milestone and put our work in the hands of our partners. It's been a long and winding road to this point, so I thought I'd write about how we got here, and the lessons we learned.

<!--truncate-->

## Timeline

### Inception
The idea for DrDocx was born in December 2019 during a conversation I had with a UCSF neuropsychologist about the pain points of her day-to-day workflow. Every profession has its inefficiencies of course, but the extent to which menial tasks like filling in a Word document and scoring patient assessments by hand took time away from worthwhile work was staggering.

The more we talked to medical professionals, the more we realized that this was not an isolated problem. Just about *everyone* we talked to had these problems, and they all just reluctantly put up with it if only because they had no other choice. Having never found an inefficiency I didn't want to automate, I was intrigued. 

### The Hackathon Version
As luck would have it, soon after we returned to UCSB for winter quarter, it was time for SB Hacks VI, UCSB's annual hackathon. 

## Lessons
1. **There's no such thing as cross-platform.**
    
    Okay, that might be a bit of an exaggeration, but not by much. From the very beginning, our goal was to build a fully cross-platform app, because we wanted to make DrDocx as widely available as possible but didn't have the resources or the motivation to maintain two separate apps. That's alright though, we're living in the era of cross-platform! .NET Core, React Native, Xamarin, and so on are all here to help. Right? Right?!
    
    Not exactly. During SB Hacks, we decided on building an ASP.NET Core app, because everyone on the team had written either C# or Java (which is very syntactically similar), and, being built by Microsoft, it had APIs for interacting with Word documents. In short, it would allow us to build something quickly and figure out the exact details of desktop deployment later. 
    
    The situation may well be better for mobile app development, but we ultimately discovered (over a not-negligible span of time) that there is really only two truly production-ready cross-platform desktop frameworks: [Electron](https://www.electronjs.org/) and Qt.
    
    Electron, for the unfamiliar, is essentially a Chromium instance running a web app taped to some native desktop APIs. For some true believers in native code, the very concept inspires horror and signifies societal moral decay. While we weren't a fan of its bloat and resource consumption, it offered us inexperienced and heavily time-constrained developers something irresistible: access to a massive ecosystem of open-source UI libraries.

2. **OpenXML is an abomination.**

3. **Working titles stick.**
    
